[cicadas chirping]
HIGURASHI: In elementary school,
I had friends
just like everyone else.
During summer break we'd all
get together
and play at the public pool
every day until sunset.
[splashing]
Thinking back on it,
my life peaked that summer
during elementary school.
[all laughing]
When it came time
for middle school,
everyone began to notice I
was naturally an introvert.
Before I knew it I was on
the outside looking in.
[rain pattering]
During my years in high school,
I kept to myself
and spent my time reading
and listening to rakugo stories.
But in college I tried
to change myself.
I did an overseas internship
and volunteer work.
Hell, I even took
a personal development seminar.
But what good was that?
Everyone still saw me
as an empty, visionless,
self-conscious idiot.
To be fair, though,
I really didn't know what
I wanted to do with myself.
KENCHO: For free.
AKIRA: What? Seriously?
We gotta go!
I could eat three of those!
- Do that and you'll just barf
'em up during practice.
AKIRA: Nah, I'll be fine
this time.
It's not gonna be
like last time.
KENCHO: Wait, didn't you say
something like that before?
AKIRA: Okay, but that
was like...
HIGURASHI: He should
have been like me:
empty, visionless,
and lacking ambition.
Instead he just cruised
through life without
a care in the world,
always enjoying himself,
and that's why...
[grunts]
I couldn't help but hate him
so damn much!
Okay! Come out of there
and show yourself!
Your dad's practically weeping
over here over what
a wonderful son he's got!
AKIRA: I have to become
a zombie?
Is that really the only way
to save my dad?
What do I do?
TERUO: Akira.
[AKIRA gasps]
TERUO: Whatever you do,
do not open that door.
[labored breathing]
[AKIRA shudders]
TERUO: Listen to me.
The day you put your mom
in danger
and make me watch my own kid
get eaten alive
is the day we're no longer
a family.
You got that?
So don't you dare come out!
- But Dad!
If I don't do anything you'll--
TERUO: Don't you worry about me,
Akira, please.
The thing is I don't have a lot
of time left here as it is.
[AKIRA gasps]
Huh?
AKIKO: It's true, Akira.
Your father's got one
of those bad growths
on his body,
and with everything that's
going on in the world right now,
there's no doctors to treat him.
AKIKO: He's running out of time.
AKIRA: But you don't know that
for sure.
If we search for a doctor
we might find one right away!
And a vaccine to deal with
the zombies could
be developed tomorrow
for all we know!
If this happens,
I'll never get the chance
to repay him for everything.
- Akira.
TERUO: Listen to me.
Help humanity.
[all gasping]
TERUO: Do everything you can
for the world.
Don't ever lie just
to gain something for yourself.
Become someone who
can feel empathy for others.
You can give back to us even
if we're not here anymore.
TERUO: If I can sit up there
in Heaven and watch you live out
a full life of your own,
then I would be happy.
There's nothing that
would make me prouder, son.
[AKIRA shuddering]
- Have you ever dreamed
of seeing the Earth...
Ever since I was a little kid...
Good luck, boy.
It's been my dream...
[multiple voices speaking
at once]
[inhales sharply]
[exhales]
HIGURASHI: Looks like he's not
comin' out after all.
[inhales]
Then again I guess some
half dead old guy
isn't much of a hostage,
now, is it?
ZOMBIES: Hmm?
- [gasps]
[all groaning]
Huh?
[zombies groaning]
[AKIRA screams]
[blows landing]
- [gasping]
[AKIRA groaning]
- [cackling]
- [whimpers]
Akira.
You are a damn fool!
- I did it!
Finally!
HIGURASHI: I turned
the person I hate more
than anyone else into a zombie!
Look at you now!
Look at you!
And now that you're a zombie
I'll never have
to see that dumb ass grin
on your face ever again!
The fun times are over
for you now!
You got that?
You can't do what
you want anymore!
I won!
I beat you!
- [groans]
[snickers]
- [grunting]
[HIGURASHI gasping]
[stammering]
HIGURASHI: What is this?
[whimpers]
What the hell is going on?
AKIRA: I'm sorry.
all: Huh?
- It's risky.
I have a plan,
but I'm gonna need
everyone's help
to pull it off.
- Huh?
NAGISA: We'll deepen
your eye sockets,
hollow out your cheeks,
and make some bruises.
For the blood I'll make
it sticky
by adding some
laundry detergent.
For your teeth we use
a brown alcohol-based ink.
And finally we'll give
you white contacts.
[all gasping]
AKIRA: Wow!
This is so awesome!
I look just like a zombie!
- Mm, mm!
- [shudders]
[zombies groaning]
[shouting]
[blows landing]
[all grunting]
[all exhaling sharply]
- It's all you now, Akira.
Knock 'em dead.
- Oh, yeah. I got this.
[chuckles]
- [gasping]
AKIRA: Sorry it took so long.
You okay?
- I'm okay.
I'll be fine, son.
I can still move,
after all.
- [gasps]
Dammit.
HIGURASHI: Dammit!
AKIRA: Higurashi.
What was the point of this?
What did you wanna gain from it?
HIGURASHI: The same thing
as you!
I wanna do everything
and anything I wanted!
Is it really that wrong for me
to have some fun
for once in my life?
AKIRA: If this
is really what you wanted,
if you wanted
to just enjoy yourself...
Then why?
Why didn't it look like you
were having fun?
- [gasping]
Of course I'm having fun!
This is exactly what I--
HIGURASHI: What I wanted
to do?
AKIRA: Higurashi.
Higurashi!
- [gasps]
[zombie groaning]
The hell?
[zombie munching]
Hey, stop.
Ah, get off me!
Dammit, dammit, dammit,
dammit, dammit!
Dammit!
[gasps]
God dammit!
[crying]
- We have to get going, Akira.
The zombies will be here
any second.
[all gasping]
[zombies groaning]
[HIGURASHI crying]
- [inhales and exhales sharply]
What's on your real list?
AKIRA: What did you want
to write down
in your real bucket list,
Higurashi?
.[HIGURASHI gasps]
I wanted...
The thing I wanted more
than anything in the world...
[gasps]
[cicadas chirping]
FRIEND A: Whoa,
the water's awesome!
[all laughing]
FRIEND B: Wow, so fast!
I guess I lost.
HIGURASHI: All right!
Yeah!
[HIGURASHI gasps]
FRIEND A: Way to go overboard,
Higurashi.
[all laughing]
Only thing that I really
ever wanted to do was...
To have fun playing
at the public pool
with my friends.
[dramatic music]
- If that's true,
you're a fool, Higurashi.
Yeah, but I can stomach it,
'cause I haven't
had breakfast yet today!
[KENCHO groans]
[all laughing]
all: Huh?
- [stammering]
- Hey, you're in
my Gen Ed program, right?
If you're hungry
do you wanna come
and eat with us right now?
- [whimpers]
[gasping]
- What's his deal?
Why'd he run off like that?
- Eh, they're gonna run out.
Come on, let's go.
AKIRA: Back then,
you should have told us.
Maybe then it could
have ended up differently.
[HIGURASHI crying]
AKIRA: Listen.
If the time comes when
I really become a zombie...
Let's go to the pool
and play like it's summer, okay?
[HIGURASHI wailing]
[zombies groaning]
[all gasping]
[HIGURASHI crying]
[grunts]
[zombies groaning]
- [gasps]
[inhales and exhales]
Let's get going.
[children breathing heavily]
[cicadas chirping]
- [panting]
[zombies groaning]
[breathing heavily]
[labored panting]
[zombies groaning]
[cicadas chirping]
[HIGURASHI panting]
[gasps]
[shudders]
[groans]
[gasps]
[cicadas chirping]
[exhales]
[chuckles]
[water splashes]
KENCHO: Hey!
all: Huh?
KENCHO: Are you guys okay?
What happened?
- [gasps]
[groans]
Kencho, that you?
- Akira?
Why are you a zombie right now?
AKIRA: What stinks?
[retches]
SHIZUKA: There you are.
You're all right.
[all gasping]
- I gathered everyone
from the village.
[all gasping]
AKIRA: This is bad.
We gotta get outta here,
and fast!
- Yeah, but how do we get past
this electric fence?
- Here I come!
Out of the way, please!
[all gasping]
KENCHO: Bea?
SHIZUKA: Beatrix?
- I cannot seem
to get down from here
so I'll just have to crash
this into the electric fence!
[all gasping]
AKIRA: Everyone,
stand back from the fence
and open up a path!
KENCHO: All healthy bodies who
are able to,
give the old folks a hand!
NAGISA: It's okay, I've got you.
BEATRIX: Here I go!
[electric sparking]
- It's down!
Make a run for it!
[KENCHO breathing heavily]
[all breathing heavily]
[BEATRIX breathing heavily]
[distant zombies groaning]
- [breathing heavily]
AKIRA: I see the suspension
bridge up ahead!
[panting]
[gasping
[all gasping]
- No way.
AKIRA: The suspension bridge.
SHIZUKA: That was our only way
of getting out of here.
[zombies groaning]
- [groans]
Damn! What do we do now?
- [gasps]
KUMANO: Look alive over there!
KUMANO: I got a feeling
you're gonna need this!
- Huh?
Whoa!
[groaning]
Oh, wow!
Mr. Kumano!
AKIRA: You came for us!
- I came to see what the zombies
were up in arms about,
only to see your
suspension bridge gave out,
so I built you a brand new one
in a jiffy!
[cackling]
I'm a man of my word.
You fellas can always count
on me.
- [snickers]
[zombies groaning]
[all gasping]
- They're almost on us!
[AKIRA and KENCHO grunting]
AKIRA: We'll hold up
the bridge for you guys!
- Hurry up!
Get moving!
[all screaming]
[KENCHO grunts]
Hurry!
AKIRA: Hurry!
- Everyone's made it across!
- [grunts]
You ready, Kencho?
- You bet.
Let's go.
[both grunting]
[both shouting]
This is--whoa--scary!
- Scary!
[bangs]
[both gasping]
[both breathing heavily]
[all gasping]
[both whimpering]
[wind howling]
[both screaming]
[all cheering]
[both sighing in relief]
[both giggling]
KENCHO: So that's it?
He just wanted friends?
If that really is all Higurashi
wanted out of life then
he's a goddamn fool.
AKIRA: Yeah.
But when I was working
for that exploitative company,
I also lost sight of myself.
Every day was so painful.
I had no idea what I
was even living for anymore.
If I had wanted
to make my own twisted list
like his evil notebook,
I easily could have.
No, anyone could
have become like Higurashi.
So despite everything,
even if I wanted to,
I can't hate him
for the things he did.
KENCHO: All right,
there we go.
[AKIRA grunting]
[gasps]
TERUO: You did good back there,
Akira.
Without you your mom
and everyone in the village
wouldn't be here right now.
Akira, I'm more than proud
to call you my son.
[AKIRA laughs]
So does that mean I was able
to repay you a little?
[indistinct chatter]
[fireworks popping]
MALE VILLAGER A:
Now, seal it off!
[zombies groaning]
[engines rumbling]
MALE VILLAGER B: Are we sure
that's all the zombies?
MALE VILLAGER C: We searched
every inch of the village.
There's no mistaking it.
[birds chirping]
SHIZUKA: You're planning on
restarting here in the village?
TOME: Well, we've only
got one hometown.
Where else would we go?
Now that Mr. Kumano
has moved here
and is leading the charge
to rebuild the village,
everyone's peppier
than ever around here.
It's almost like they've got
a second shot at life in 'em.
I'm sure it won't be long before
the village is back to normal,
especially with him in charge.
- [grunts]
TOME: It's all thanks to you,
Shizuka.
- Huh?
- Oh, come on.
You were our village doctor,
remember?
SHIZUKA: Oh, not really.
I'm not even a doctor.
TOME: What you did was cure us
old whiners when we were ready
to give in.
For that, dear,
I can't thank you enough.
- [gasps]
[grunts]
ANJU: Here, hold this.
[KENCHO exhales]
[ANJU grunting]
Hold it steady or we're
not gonna finish before dinner!
KENCHO: Uh, right.
[ANJU grunting]
- Angie, you're like
an entirely different person.
[ANJU grunts]
Well, time isn't gonna repair
the fence.
And besides, I don't wanna
just keep crying over zombies.
ANJU: I was able
to move forward because
a funny guy got me to smile.
- Oh.
- So thank you, Mr. Comedian.
- [gasps]
[chuckles]
- [labored breathing]
AKIKO: He's sound asleep,
isn't he?
[AKIRA gasps]
- It's because he's worn
himself ragged all of this time.
AKIKO: Every day he never failed
to ask me the same thing:
"Have we heard
from Akira lately?
You think Akira
is doing all right?"
AKIRA: Well, in a world full
of zombies,
I guess even a curmudgeon
like Dad would
be worried about me.
AKIKO: Not like that.
He started asking the day after
you left for Tokyo.
- [gasps]
- [labored breathing]
AKIRA: If...
[sniffling]
AKIRA: Not to say that
it's going to,
but if anything happens to you,
Dad,
I promise that I'll always...
I'll always keep Mom
and the village safe.
I'll keep them safe even
if you're not here
to do it, Dad.
[crying]
AKIRA: By the way,
what does dad have?
[wind blowing]
[groans]
Hemorrhoids?
That's it? Seriously?
- That's right.
[all groaning]
It's true
and he can't stand hospitals
so he hasn't done anything yet
to treat them.
The bleeding's awful
and it's too painful for him
to stand too long.
AKIRA: Um, then why
is he wheezing so hard?
AKIKO: Lately it's been very hot
in the countryside,
even at night.
It's difficult for us old timers
to sleep.
- Still, we can't ignore
the hemorrhoids he has!
If something like that
is left alone without treatment
for too long it could lead
to a life-threatening infection,
you know!
[AKIRA laughing]
I see.
It's just hemorrhoids, huh?
TERUO: Find your dream, Akira.
Find the biggest one you can.
Your dreams keep a man solid.
Don't ya ever forget that.
- [chuckles]
AKIRA: If that's the case,
I think it's time I leave
the village.
- Huh?
- But they're still rebuilding.
- Akira, what do you want
to do outside
the village so badly?
AKIRA: If what Shizuka said
was true and the zombies
are caused by a virus...
I'll travel the country
and look for a cure to it!
Then I'll convince Dad
to get surgery
for his hemorrhoids!
Yeah!
- Ah?
[all gasping]
- "Do your best to help humanity
and do what you can
for the world."
Those were Dad's last wishes,
after all.
both: He's still alive, though.
TERUO: Going out to save
the world, huh?
That's the wildest thing
I've heard.
[all gasping]
It's a mighty big dream,
though, and I like it!
- [chuckles]
AKIRA: How about you guys?
all: Hmm?
Is there anything you wanna add
to the bucket list?
- Hmm?
- Ah.
[all chuckling]
- Well, now that you ask,
here's one for me.
I'm sure there are lots
of people across Japan
who are crying just
like Angie was.
- This time I wanna try
and make my childhood dream
come true.
- As of right now
I've only toured
the zombie-infested parts
of Nippon.
- Sounds great!
Let's keep it up
and write down all
the stuff we wanna do in Japan!
Let's go!
- I wanna throw a party on
a cruise ship!
- I wanna swim with dolphins!
- I want to be able
to live in a castle!
KENCHO: Meditate under
a waterfall!
AKIRA: I wanna ride an ostrich!
SHIZUKA: Ooh, I've always wanted
to eat Yoboku squid served live!
BEATRIX: I want
to experience hatsumode
at Ise Shrine!
AKIRA: You can do that!
KENCHO: Ah, nice one!
[all talking at once]
MALE VILLAGER D:
Got enough water?
MALE VILLAGER E: Oh,
and take some vegetables, too.
TOME: It's just gonna get colder
from here on.
Feel free
to take whatever you need.
- Thank you so much.
OLD MAN HIKO: Akemi?
TOME: Hmm?
- I'll always be waiting here.
You come back now, you hear?
- Old Man Hiko.
I'm sorry but I'm not Akemi.
I'm Shizuka.
BEATRIX: It's going to be lonely
without him, isn't it?
It's okay to cry, you know.
Saying goodbye is never easy.
He won't mind you shedding tears
in front of him.
[ANJU crying]
[BEATRIX gasps]
[chuckles]
ANJU: Mr. Kencho!
KENCHO: Oh.
- When you do get around
to coming back,
show me how you slurp udon
with your butt!
- Oh?
Hah!
AKIRA: Enough already!
When are we gonna need all
this simmered seaweed?
AKIKO: You never know,
so take it.
It'll keep for some time.
I don't like the idea
of you going hungry somewhere,
so there's no such thing
as having too much food.
- Thanks, Mom.
TERUO: Akira.
- [whimpers]
- Leave your mother to me, okay?
- [gasps]
[grunts]
Okay, everyone.
I promise we'll be back...
As soon as we're finished saving
the world!
KENCHO: So,
what's the plan, Akira?
We'll need a vaccine
to stop a virus.
Isn't that right?
- Are we heading
to an infectious disease
research lab?
A US military base?
AKIRA: Go north!
- Go north?
- Hah, because all
good travelers venture north!
I'm so excited
I can barely sit still!
[all laughing]
[Kana-Boon's "Song of the Dead"]
- [singing in Japanese]
♪♪ ♪♪
♪♪ Burger ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Song of the dead,
song of the dead ♪♪
♪♪ I wanna dancing, dancing
rolling, rolling ♪♪
♪♪ Only one my life ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]
♪♪ ♪♪
♪♪ Da, da, da, dancing, dancing
morning, morning... ♪♪
- Is it only me or does it seem
like we're just sightseeing?
It certainly doesn't seem like
we're searching for a solution.
- It's all good.
KENCHO: Hey, I think I see it!
KENCHO: The Seikan Tunnel!
AKIRA: All right!
Next up is Hokkaido!
- Sounds good to me!
[laughs]
- [laughing]
- [snickering]
- [chuckles]
- [laughs]